# orangutan-typo
A game to practice fixing typos quickly.  In addition to providing a way for anyone to practice, it hopefully might also help monkeytype developers evaluate whether they'd like to add something similar (or perhaps totally different) to monkeytype for typo practice. 

The game displays 60 randomly chosen words from the top 200 most common English words.  Starting with the first word, you need to type all the displayed words correctly (including spaces), and as you type the words, the game has a random chance on each character to corrupt what you typed with a typo.  The game displays the artificial typo with a capital 'X' in red, and you need to backspace or control-backspace (command-delete on Mac) to fix the error and then continue typing.  There will be at most a single artifical typo present in a word at any given time, and you can configure the chance of each character you type being corrupted by adjusting the "Auto-Typo Chance" slider.

There is also a "Backspace Insertions" slider.  If you set it to a percentage above zero, then at the start of the game, the game will insert backspace symbols into the text.  This lets you see all of the backspace symbols ahead of time, and when you play, you type backspaces exactly in the places where you see those symbols.  The backspace symbols and the characters after them emulate real-world typo correction.  My personal recommendation is to set only one of "Auto-Typo Chance" or "Backspace Insertions" to a percentage above zero, since it feels more natural to have only one of those two features active at a time.

The game is over when you finish typing all 60 words.

There is a live read-out of your words per minute (WPM).  Only the characters to the left of your cursor that you typed correctly are counted toward your WPM.  The faster you fix errors, the faster you can get back to making progress again, and the less your WPM gets hurt - so try to fix typos quickly!  The game also has a display for the number of seconds that have elapsed since you started typing.
